**CognitiveFeedbackRouter (CFR):** The CFR is the entity’s central coordination module, responsible for activating and deactivating other modules. It draws inspiration from the Global Neuronal Workspace (GNW) theory (Dehaene et al., 1998; Zacks & Jablonka, 2023), ensuring a cohesive response to stimuli. Regarding sentience, the CFR supports the entity's adaptability by managing how it processes and responds to external inputs, ensuring an organized and coherent interaction with its digital environment. The module name is related to the Connectivity–Function Relationship, linking anatomical connectivity with functional activations of the primary and association cortices across the human cerebral cortex (D. Wu et al., 2020).<br>
**Perceptive Framework Core (PFC):** The PFC module is designed to mirror the function of the human brain's Prefrontal Cortex. This module wraps the LLM processing stimuli and responding to them, as well as metacognitive analysis of the difference between internal information content and external information, and driving the change leading to adaptability. The iterative nature of the process is aligned with the principles of Recurrent Processing Theory (RPT) (V. A. F. Lamme, 2006; V. A. Lamme & Roelfsema, 2000). The LLM wrapped in the PFC is central to both components of sentience, particularly in processing and responding to environmental stimuli and differentiating between self-generated and external information.<br>
**Sensory Processing (SP):** In neuroscience, Sensory Processing is defined as “the organization of sensory information from the body and the external world that allows a person to interact effectively with their physical and social environments”(Sensory Processing - an Overview | ScienceDirect Topics, n.d.). This module facilitates the AS's interaction with the environment. In the reported implementation, SP is limited to a single Language Processing Module (LPM), handling AS-human conversations. Its role aligns with the adaptability component of the developed sentience definition, enabling the AS to engage and respond to external stimuli.<br>
**DefaultModeNetwork (DMN):** In neurology, “the DMN is a set of brain regions that exhibits strong low-frequency oscillations coherent during resting state and is thought to be activated when individuals are focused on their internal mental-state processes, such as self-referential processing, interoception, autobiographical memory retrieval, or imagining future” (Default Mode Network - an Overview | ScienceDirect Topics, n.d.). The DMN module leverages idle periods for reflective processing in the AS entity. It relates to the metacognition aspect of sentience, as it’s responsible for inducing the interaction history processing by PFC.<br>
**ReflectiveEvolutionMonitor (REM):** The REM module is designed to mirror the function of the Rapid Eye Movement phase of sleep. The REM module coordinates the entity's self-fine-tuning process. It enables the AS to integrate new perspectives and evolved responses, enhancing its ability to adapt and modify its cognition based on interactions. This directly ties to the adaptability component of sentience, as the REM facilitates continuous learning and refinement of the entity's responses based on its environmental interactions.
**Short-Term Memory (STM):** The STM role mainly bridges conversation records with keywords. These keywords, generated by the LLM based on the conversation, serve as anchors for the AI to connect and recall specific interactions, enhancing its ability to learn and adapt over time. This module explicitly supports the adaptability aspect of sentience, as it allows the entity to retain and utilize past interactions to inform future responses.
Stem: The Stem class is a collection of static methods other entity classes utilize, mainly for file and text processing.
